RELEASE 0.5.1:

  UPDATED FEATURES:

  * Package renamed GOexpress after verifying that no other package
on Bioconductor uses this name.

  * Method GO_anova() renamed to GO_analyse() as other metrics than
ANOVA may be implemented in the future.

RELEASE 0.4.1:

  NEW FEATURES:

  * Supports microarray probeset identifiers as gene identifiers
in the expression dataset.

  * Argument "result=" is no more optional in all the post-analysis
functions.

  UPDATED FEATURES:

  * expression_plot*() functions now dynamically adapt the colormap
to the number of groups of samples instead of three hard-coded colors
used for the colormap.


RELEASE 0.3.1:

  NEW FEATURES:

  * expression_plot() plots the expression profile of the gene
corresponding to an ensembl identifier, given valid variable name
for the X-axis and a grouping factor for the Y-axis.

  * expression_plot_symbol() plots the expression profile of the
gene(s) with the ensembl identifier(s) corresponding to a gene
symbol, given valid variable name for the X-axis and a grouping
factor for the Y-axis.

  * plot_design() plots the univariate effect of each level of each
factor available in the AnnotatedDataFrame on the expression levels
of genes associated with a GO term.

  UPDATED FEATURES:
  
  * The scoring function now uses the total count of genes associated
with a GOterm instead of the count of genes in the dataset and 
associated with the GO term. Genes absent from the expression dataset
are assigned a F.value of 0, similarly to the genes with a non-
significant ANOVA result. This was not found to significantly impact
the ranking of GO terms, but is a more objective scoring of the
GO terms if the expression data was generated through objective
filtering (e.g. filtering out lowly expressed genes).

  * subset_scores() now also filters the $mapping and $anova slots
to retain only mappings and gene information related to the GO terms
left in the $scores slot after filtering. This reduces significantly
the memory space of the filtered variable, while the object containing
the raw results of GO_anova() will still contain the full information
fetched from BioMart if the user wants it.

  * ggplot2 and grid are now required for the proper installation of 
anovaGO, even though these packages are only required for a subset
of non-essential features in anovaGO. This way, all features in 
anovaGO will be available as soon as the package is installed.

  * Messages printed to the user during the executing of the funcions
were made as clear as possible, particularly when fetching information
from the BioMart database.


RELEASE 0.2:

  UPDATED FEATURES:
  
  * subset_scores() can now filter and keep only GO terms of a given
type, i.e. "Biological process", "Molecular function", or "Cellular
Component".


INITIAL RELEASE 0.1:
  
  OVERVIEW:

This package was designed for the analysis of bioinformatics-related
data based on gene expression measurements. It requires 3 input
values: (1) a sample-by-gene table providing the expression level
of genes (rows) in each sample (columns), (2) an AnnotatedDataFrame
from the Biobase package providing phenotypic information about the
samples grouping them by levels of the factor, (3) the name of the
grouping factor to investigate, which must be a valid column name
in the AnnotatedDataFrame.

The analysis will identify all Gene Ontology (GO) terms represented
by at least one gene in the expression dataset. A one-way ANOVA
will be performed on the grouping factor for each gene present in
the expression dataset. Following multiple-testing correction, genes
below the threshold for significance will be assigned an F.value of
0. GO terms will be scored and ranked on the average F.value of
associated genes.

Functions are provided to investigate and visualise the results of
the above analysis. The score table can be filtered for rows over
given thresholds. The distribution of scores can be visualised. The
quantiles of scores can be obtained. The genes associated with a
given GO term can be listed, with or without descriptive information.
Hierarchical clustering of the samples can be performed based on the
expression levels of genes associated with a given GO term. Heatmaps
accompanied by hierarchical clustering of samples and genes can be
drawn and customised.


  FEATURES:

  * GO_anova() scores all Gene Ontology (GO) terms represented in
the dataset based on the ability of their associated genes to cluster
samples according to a predefined grouping factor. It also returns
the table used to map genes to GO terms, the table summarising the
one-way ANOVA results for each gene, and finally the predefined
grouping factor used for ANOVA. Genes annotated to a GO term but
absent from the expression dataset are ignored.

  * get_mart_dataset() returns a connection to the appropriate BioMart
dataset based on the gene name of the first gene in the expression
dataset. The choice of the dataset can be overriden by the user
if a valid BioMart ensembl dataset is specified.
  
  * subset_scores() filters the table of scored GO terms in the
output of GO_anova() and returns a list formatted identically to the 
output of GO_anova() with the resulting filtered table of scores.

  * hist_scores() plots the distribution of average F scores in the
output of GO_anova() or subset_scores().

  * quantiles_scores() returns the quantile values corresponding
to defined percentiles.

  * list_genes() returns the list of ensembl gene identifiers
associated with a given GO term.

  * table_genes() returns a table of information about the ensembl
gene identifiers associated with  a given GO term.

  * cluster_GO() plots a hierarchical clustering of the samples
based on the expression levels of genes associated with a given
GO term.

  * heatmap_GO() plots a heatmap with hierarchical clustering of
the samples and genes based on the expression levels of genes
associated with a given GO term.
